# Introduction
This repo contains the i.MX MPU project Matter related Yocto recipes. Below is a list of modules that will be built with the meta-matter repo integrated.
 - Matter (CHIP) : https://github.com/project-chip/connectedhomeip
 - OpenThread Daemon: https://github.com/openthread/openthread
 - OpenThread Border Router: https://github.com/openthread/ot-br-posix

All the software components revision are based on [project Matter TE9](https://github.com/project-chip/connectedhomeip/commits/TE9).

The the Following Matter related binaries will be installed into the Yocto image root filesystem with this recipe repo:
 - chip-lighting-app: Matter lighting app demo
 - chip-all-clusters-app: Matter all-clusters demo
 - thermostat-app: Matter thermostat demo
 - chip-tool: Matter Controller tools
 - ot-daemon: OpenThread Daemon for OpenThread client
 - ot-client-ctl: OpenThread ctrl tool for OpenThread client
 - otbr-agent: OpenThread Border Router agent
 - ot-ctl: OpenThread Border Router ctrl tool
 - otbr-web: OpenThread Border Router web management daemon

# How to build the Yocto image with integrated OpenThread Border Router
Yocto build environment must first be setup.

The Yocto source code is maintained with a repo manifest, the tool repo is used to download the source code.
This document is tested with the i.MX Yocto 5.15.32_2.0.0 release. The hardware tested in this documentation is the i.MX 8M Mini EVK and i.MX6ULL EVK.
Run the commands below to download this release:

    $ mkdir ~/bin
    $ curl http://commondatastorage.googleapis.com/git-repo-downloads/repo > ~/bin/repo
    $ chmod a+x ~/bin/repo
    $ export PATH=${PATH}:~/bin
    
    $ mkdir yocto # this directory will be the top directory of the Yocto source code
    $ cd yocto
    $ repo init -u https://source.codeaurora.org/external/imx/imx-manifest -b imx-linux-kirkstone -m imx-5.15.32-2.0.0.xml
    $ repo sync
Then integrate the meta-matter recipe into the Yocto code base

    $ cd ${MY_YOCTO}/sources/
    $ git clone https://github.com/NXPmicro/meta-matter.git

To build the Yocto Project, some packages need to be installed. The list of packages required are:

    $ sudo apt-get install gawk wget git-core diffstat unzip texinfo gcc-multilib \
    build-essential chrpath socat cpio python3 python3-pip python3-pexpect \
    xz-utils debianutils iputils-ping python3-git python3-jinja2 libegl1-mesa libsdl1.2-dev \
    pylint3 xterm npm

More information about the downloaded Yocto release can be found in the corresponding i.MX Yocto Project User’s Guide which can be found at [NXP official website](http://www.nxp.com/imxlinux).

Make sure your default Python of the Linux host is Python2.

    $ python --version
      Python 2.7.18

Change the current directory to the top directory of the Yocto source code and execute the commands below to generate the Yocto images.

    #For i.MX8M Mini EVK:
    $MACHINE=imx8mmevk DISTRO=fsl-imx-xwayland source sources/meta-matter/tools/imx-iot-setup.sh bld-xwayland
    #For i.MX6ULL EVK:
    $MACHINE=imx6ullevk DISTRO=fsl-imx-xwayland source sources/meta-matter/tools/imx-iot-setup.sh bld-xwayland
    $bitbake imx-image-multimedia


After execution of previous two commands, the Yocto images will be generated under ${MY_YOCTO}/bld-xwayland/tmp/deploy/images/imx8mmevk/imx-image-multimedia-imx8mmevk.wic.bz2 for i.MX8M Mini EVK and ${MY_YOCTO}/bld-xwayland/tmp/deploy/images/imx6ullevk/imx-image-multimedia-imx6ullevk.wic.bz2. The bzip2 command should be used to unzip this file then the dd command should be used to program the output file to a microSD card by running the commands below. Then a microSD card can be used
to boot the image of an i.MX 8M Mini EVK or i.MX6ULL EVK.

___Be cautious when executing the dd command below, make sure the of represents the microSD card device!, /dev/sdc in the command below represents a microSD card connected to the host machine with a USB adapter, however the output device name may vary. Use the command "ls /dev/sd*" to verify the name of the SD card device.___

    #For i.MX8M Mini EVK:
    $ bzip2 -d imx-image-multimedia-imx8mmevk.wic.bz2
    $ sudo dd if=imx-image-multimedia-imx8mmevk.wic of=/dev/sdc bs=4M conv=fsync
    #For i.MX6ULL EVK:
    $ bzip2 -d imx-image-multimedia-imx6ullevk.wic.bz2
    $ sudo dd if=imx-image-multimedia-imx6ullevk.wic of=/dev/sdc bs=4M conv=fsync

# How to build OpenThread Border Router with Yocto SDK
There are 3 module for OpenThread Border Router (OTBR): otbr-agent, ot-ctl and otbr-web. The otbr-web need liboost static and jsoncpp modules which are not included into default built Yocto images.

To build these binaries, the Yocto SDK with meta-matter generated must be used. This SDK can be generated by below command:

    $cd ${MY_YOCTO}/bld-xwayland
    $bitbake imx-image-multimedia -c populate_sdk

Install the NXP Yocto SDK and set toolchain environment variables.
Run the SDK installation script with root permission.

    #For i.MX8M Mini EVK:
    $ sudo tmp/deploy/sdk/fsl-imx-xwayland-glibc-x86_64-imx-image-multimedia-armv8a-imx8mmevk-toolchain-5.15-kirkstone.sh
    #For i.MX6ULL EVK
    $ sudo tmp/deploy/sdk/fsl-imx-wayland-glibc-x86_64-imx-image-multimedia-cortexa7t2hf-neon-imx6ullevk-toolchain-5.15-kirkstone.sh

After the Yocto SDK is installed on the host machine, an environment setup script is also generated, and there are prompt lines telling the user to source the script each time when using the SDK in a new shell, for example:

    #For i.MX8M Mini EVK
    $ . /opt/fsl-imx-xwayland/5.15-kirkstone/environment-setup-armv8a-poky-linux
    $For i.MX6ULL EVK
    $ . /opt/fsl-imx-wayland/5.15-kirkstone/environment-setup-cortexa7t2hf-neon-poky-linux-gnueabi

After the SDK package installed in the build machine, import the Yocto build environment using the command:

    #For i.MX8M Mini EVK
    $source ${SDK_INSTALLED_PATH}/environment-setup-armv8a-poky-linux
    #For i.MX6ULL EVK
    $source ${SDK_INSTALLED_PATH}/environment-setup-cortexa7t2hf-neon-poky-linux-gnueabi

Fetch latest otbr source codes and execute the build:

    $git clone https://github.com/openthread/ot-br-posix
    $git checkout -t origin/main
    $git submodule update --init
    #For i.MX8M Mini EVK
    $ ./script/cmake-build -DOTBR_BORDER_ROUTING=ON -DOTBR_REST=ON -DOTBR_WEB=ON -DOTBR_BACKBONE_ROUTER=ON \
     -DOT_BACKBONE_ROUTER_MULTICAST_ROUTING=ON -DBUILD_TESTING=OFF -DOTBR_DBUS=ON -DOTBR_DNSSD_DISCOVERY_PROXY=ON \
     -DOTBR_SRP_ADVERTISING_PROXY=ON -DOT_THREAD_VERSION=1.2 -DOTBR_INFRA_IF_NAME=mlan0 \
     -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=./examples/platforms/nxp/linux-imx/aarch64.cmake
    #For i.MX6ULL EVK
    $ ./script/cmake-build -DOTBR_BORDER_ROUTING=ON -DOTBR_REST=ON -DOTBR_WEB=ON -DOTBR_BACKBONE_ROUTER=ON \
     -DOT_BACKBONE_ROUTER_MULTICAST_ROUTING=ON -DBUILD_TESTING=OFF -DOTBR_DBUS=ON -DOTBR_DNSSD_DISCOVERY_PROXY=ON \
     -DOTBR_SRP_ADVERTISING_PROXY=ON -DOT_THREAD_VERSION=1.2 -DOTBR_INFRA_IF_NAME=mlan0 \
     -DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=./examples/platforms/nxp/linux-imx/arm.cmake

The otbr-agent is built in ${MY_OTBR}/build/otbr/src/agent/otbr-agent.
The ot-ctl is built in ${MY_OTBR}/build/otbr/third_party/openthread/repo/src/posix/ot-ctl.
The otbr-web is built in ${MY_OTBR}/build/otbr/src/web/otbr-web.
Please copy them into Yocto's /usr/sbin/.

# How to setup OpenThread Border Router environment within the Yocto

After the OTBR boot, the __i.MX8M Mini EVK__ or __i.MX6ULL EVK__ must connect the OTBR to the target Wi-Fi AP network.

    $modprobe moal mod_para=nxp/wifi_mod_para.conf
    $wpa_passphrase ${SSID} ${PASSWORD} > imxrouter.conf
    $wpa_supplicant -d -B -i mlan0 -c ./imxrouter.conf
    $udhcpc -i mlan0
    $echo 1 > /proc/sys/net/ipv6/conf/all/forwarding
    $echo 1 > /proc/sys/net/ipv4/ip_forward
    $echo 2 > /proc/sys/net/ipv6/conf/all/accept_ra

Plugin the Thread module into the USB OTG port of __i.MX8M Mini EVK__ or __i.MX6ULL EVK__. A USB device should be visible as _/dev/ttyUSB_ or _/dev/ttyACM_.
Once the USB device is detected, start te OTBR related services.

When using the RCP module, programmed with OpenThread Spinel firmware image, execute the following commands:

    $otbr-agent -I wpan0 -B mlan0 spinel+hdlc+uart:///dev/ttyACM0 &
    $iptables -A FORWARD -i mlan0 -o wpan0 -j ACCEPT
    $iptables -A FORWARD -i wpan0 -o mlan0 -j ACCEPT
    $otbr-web &

# How to build Matter application

A document described how to build Matter application for i.MX platforms can be found in [Matter community](https://github.com/project-chip/connectedhomeip/blob/master/docs/guides/nxp_imx8m_linux_examples.md).

A Matter official document about how to use chip-tool as Matter controller can be found in [here](https://github.com/project-chip/connectedhomeip/blob/TE8/rc3/examples/chip-tool/README.md).

# How to run IW612 with i.MX8M Mini EVK

In order to run IW612, following Yocto images under directory ${MY_YOCTO}/bld-xwayland/tmp/deploy/images/imx8mmevk should be used:
 - imx-boot-imx8mmevk-sd.bin-flash_evk.
 - imx-image-multimedia-imx8mmevk.wic.bz2.
 
UUU is used to program above two files to eMMC by running the commands below:

    $ sudo uuu -b emmc_all imx-boot-imx8mmevk-sd.bin-flash_evk imx-image-multimedia-imx8mmevk.wic.bz2
    
Setting of Boot Switches to boot from eMMC:
 - SW1101 -> 0110110001
 - SW1102 -> 0001010100

Use Minicom as debug console:

    $ sudo TERM=linux minicom -D /dev/ttyUSB1 -b 115200
    
 - Reach the configuration by typing CTRL-A Z (Press key Z after releasing CTRL and A)
 - At the screen configuration, type O, choosing cOnfigure Minicom
 - In menu, choose Serial Port Setup and confirm following settings:

   Bps/Par/Bits : 115200 8N1, Hardware Flow Control : No, and Software Flow Control : No

# How to build UUU

The Universal Update Utility (UUU) is used to download images to different devices on an i.MX board. Download UUU version 1.4.193 or later from https://github.com/NXPmicro/mfgtools/releases and execute the commands below to build it.

    $ tar xvf uuu_source-1.4.193.tar.gz
    $ cd uuu-1.4.193
    $ cmake .
    $ make
